ENH: Allow, and default to, downstream building with old API (#23528)
numpy/numpy: doc/source/dev/depending_on_numpy.rst

adapt your code.

.. _depending_on_numpy:

Adding a dependency on NumPy
----------------------------

Build-time dependency
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

    Before NumPy 1.25, the NumPy C-API was *not* backwards compatible.  This
    means that when compiling with a NumPy version earlier than 1.25 you
    have to compile with the oldest version you wish to support.
    This can be done by using
    `oldest-supported-numpy <https://github.com/scipy/oldest-supported-numpy/>`__.
    Please see the NumPy 1.24 documentation at
    `https://numpy.org/doc/1.24/dev/depending_on_numpy.html`__.

If a package either uses the NumPy C API directly or it uses some other tool
that depends on it like Cython or Pythran, NumPy is a *build-time* dependency
of the package. 

> By default, NumPy will expose an API that is compatible with at least the
> oldest NumPy version that supports the currently oldest compatible Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, NumPy will expose an API that is backwardscompatible with the
oldest NumPy version that supports the currently oldest compatible Python
```

> version:  NumPy 1.25.0 supports Python 3.9 and higher and NumPy 1.19 is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version.  NumPy 1.25.0 supports Python 3.9 and higher and NumPy 1.19 is the
```

> first version to support Python 3.9.  Thus, we will guarantee that version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first version to support Python 3.9.  Thus, we guarantee that version
```

(the exact version is set within NumPy-internal header files).

NumPy is also forward compatible for all minor releases, but a major release
will require recompilation.

The default behavior can be customized for example by adding::

    #define NPY_TARGET_VERSION NPY_1_22_API_VERSION

> before including any NumPy headers (or the equivalent ``-D`` compiler flag).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before including any NumPy headers (or the equivalent ``-D`` compiler flag) in
every extension module that requires the NumPy C-API.
```

This is mainly useful if you need to use newly added API at the cost of not
being compatible with older versions.

If for some reason you wish to compile for the currently installed NumPy
version by default you can add::

    #ifndef NPY_TARGET_VERSION
        #define NPY_TARGET_VERSION NPY_API_VERSION
    #endif

Which allows a user to override the default via ``-DNPY_TARGET_VERSION``.
This define must be consistent for each extension module (use of
``import_array()``) and also applies to the umath module.

When you compile against NumPy, you should add the proper version restrictions
to your ``pyproject.toml`` (see PEP 517).  Since your extension will not be
compatible with a new major release of NumPy and may not be compatible with
very old versions.

For conda-forge packages, please see
`here <https://conda-forge.org/docs/maintainer/knowledge_base.html#building-against-numpy>`__.

as of now, it is usually as easy as including::

    host:
      - numpy
    run:
      - {{ pin_compatible('numpy') }}

.. note::

    At the time of NumPy 1.25, NumPy 2.0 is expected to be the next release

>     of NumPy.  The NumPy 2.0 release is expected to require modifying this
>     since it will be required to compile against NumPy 2+ in order to be
>     compatible with both NumPy 1.x and 2.x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    of NumPy.  The NumPy 2.0 release is expected to require a different pin,
    since NumPy 2+ will be needed in order to be compatible with both NumPy
    1.x and 2.x.
```

Build-time dependency
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

    Before NumPy 1.25, the NumPy C-API was *not* backwards compatible.  This
    means that when compiling with a NumPy version earlier than 1.25 you
    have to compile with the oldest version you wish to support.
    This can be done by using
    `oldest-supported-numpy <https://github.com/scipy/oldest-supported-numpy/>`__.

>     Please see the NumPy 1.24 documentation for further details.

Reviewer 2: Link to https://numpy.org/doc/1.24/dev/depending_on_numpy.html directly?

If a package either uses the NumPy C API directly or it uses some other tool
that depends on it like Cython or Pythran, NumPy is a *build-time* dependency
of the package. 

By default, NumPy will expose an API that is compatible with at least the
oldest NumPy version that supports the currently oldest compatible Python
version:  NumPy 1.25.0 supports Python 3.9 and higher and NumPy 1.19 is the
first version to support Python 3.9.  Thus, we will guarantee that version

> (the exact version is set in the headers).

Reviewer 2: minor tweak proposed: "is set within NumPy-internal header files"

> NumPy is also forward compatible for all minor release, but a major release

Reviewer 2: typo: add `s` after `all minor release`

will require recompilation.

The default behavior can be customized for example by adding::

    #define NPY_TARGET_VERSION NPY_1_22_API_VERSION

> before including any NumPy headers (or the equivalent ``-D`` compiler flag).

Reviewer 2: I briefly wondered whether it matters whether this define is used consistently globally or per extension module. I believe it's the latter; would be useful to clarify that here.
